# SQL
## What is SQL?
SQL, or Structured Query Language, is a language designed to allow both technical and non-technical users query, manipulate, and transform data from a relational database. And due to its simplicity, SQL databases provide safe and scalable storage for millions of websites and mobile applications.

## SELECT queries
To retrieve data from a SQL database, we need to write SELECT statements, which are often colloquially refered to as queries. A query in itself is just a statement which declares what data we are looking for, where to find it in the database, and optionally, how to transform it before it is returned.

**Select query for a specific columns**
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable;
```

## Queries with constraints
if you had a table with a hundred million rows of data, reading through all the rows would be inefficient and perhaps even impossible.

In order to filter certain results from being returned, we need to use a WHERE clause in the query. The clause is applied to each row of data by checking specific column values to determine whether it should be included in the results or not.

**Select query with constraints**
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition
    AND/OR another_condition
    AND/OR …;
```

|Operator	|Condition	|Example|
|--|--|--|
|=	|Case sensitive exact string comparison (notice the single equals)	|col_name = "abc"|
|!= or <>	|Case sensitive exact string inequality comparison	|col_name != "abcd"|
|LIKE	|Case insensitive exact string comparison	|col_name LIKE "ABC"|
|NOT LIKE	|Case insensitive exact string inequality comparison	|col_name NOT LIKE "ABCD"|
|%	|Used anywhere in a string to match a sequence of zero or more characters (only with LIKE or NOT LIKE)	|col_name LIKE "%AT%"(matches "AT", "ATTIC", "CAT" or even "BATS")|
|_	|Used anywhere in a string to match a single character (only with LIKE or NOT LIKE)	|col_name LIKE "AN_"(matches "AND", but not "AN")|
|IN (…)	|String exists in a list	|col_name IN ("A", "B", "C")|
|NOT IN (…)	|String does not exist in a list	|col_name NOT IN ("D", "E", "F")|

## Filtering and sorting Query results

Even though the data in a database may be unique, the results of any particular query may not be – take our Movies table for example, many different movies can be released the same year. In such cases, SQL provides a convenient way to discard rows that have a duplicate column value by using the DISTINCT keyword.

Select query with unique results
```
SELECT DISTINCT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s);
```

## Ordering results

Unlike our neatly ordered table in the last few lessons, most data in real databases are added in no particular column order. As a result, it can be difficult to read through and understand the results of a query as the size of a table increases to thousands or even millions rows.

To help with this, SQL provides a way to sort your results by a given column in ascending or descending order using the ORDER BY clause.

Select query with ordered results
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s)
ORDER BY column ASC/DESC;
```

## Limiting results to a subset
Another clause which is commonly used with the ORDER BY clause are the LIMIT and OFFSET clauses, which are a useful optimization to indicate to the database the subset of the results you care about.
The LIMIT will reduce the number of rows to return, and the optional OFFSET will specify where to begin counting the number rows from.

Select query with limited rows
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s)
ORDER BY column ASC/DESC
LIMIT num_limit OFFSET num_offset;
```
