# Responsive Web Design
With the growth in mobile Internet usage comes the question of how to build websites suitable for all users. The industry response to this question has become responsive web design, also known as RWD.

## Responsive vs. Adaptive vs. Mobile
Responsive and adaptive web design are closely related, and often transposed as one in the same. Responsive generally means to react quickly and positively to any change, while adaptive means to be easily modified for a new purpose or situation, such as change. With responsive design websites continually and fluidly change based on different factors, such as viewport width, while adaptive websites are built to a group of preset factors. A combination of the two is ideal, providing the perfect formula for functional websites. Which term is used specifically doesn’t make a huge difference.

Mobile, on the other hand, generally means to build a separate website commonly on a new domain solely for mobile users. While this does occasionally have its place, it normally isn’t a great idea. Mobile websites can be extremely light but they do come with the dependencies of a new code base and browser sniffing, all of which can become an obstacle for both developers and users.

## Flexible Layouts

 flexible layouts, is the practice of building the layout of a website with a flexible grid, capable of dynamically resizing to any width.

**Flexible layouts do not advocate the use of fixed measurement units, such as pixels or inches.**

Flexible grids are built using relative length units, most commonly percentages or em units. These relative lengths are then used to declare common grid property values such as width, margin, or padding.

The formula is based around taking the target width of an element and dividing it by the width of it’s parent element. The result is the relative width of the target element.


**target ÷ context = result**

example:

```
section,
aside {
  margin: 1.858736059%; /*  10px ÷ 538px = .018587361 */
}
section {
  float: left;
  width: 63.197026%;    /* 340px ÷ 538px = .63197026 */   
}
aside {
  float: right;
  width: 29.3680297%;  /* 158px ÷ 538px = .293680297 */
}
```
## Media Queries

Media queries provide the ability to specify different styles for individual browser and device circumstances, the width of the viewport or device orientation for example. 

### Initializing Media Queries
HTML
```
<!-- Separate CSS File -->
<link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" media="all and (max-width: 1024px)">
```

CSS
```
/* @media Rule */
@media all and (max-width: 1024px) {...}

/* @import Rule */
@import url(styles.css) all and (max-width: 1024px) {...}
```

### Logical Operators in Media Queries
There are three different logical operators available for use within media queries, including **and, not,** and **only**.

### Height & Width Media Features
One of the most common media features revolves around determining a height or width for a device or browser viewport. The **height** and **width** may be found by using the height and width media features. Each of these media features may then also be prefixed with the min or max qualifiers, building a feature such as min-width or max-width.

### Orientation Media Feature
The orientation media feature determines if a device is in the **_landscape_** or **_portrait_** orientation. 

## Mobile First
The mobile first approach includes using styles targeted at smaller viewports as the default styles for a website, then use media queries to add styles as the viewport grows.

A breakout of mobile first media queries might look at bit like the following.
```
/* Default styles first then media queries */
@media screen and (min-width: 400px)  {...}
@media screen and (min-width: 600px)  {...}
@media screen and (min-width: 1000px) {...}
@media screen and (min-width: 1400px) {...}

```

Additionally, downloading unnecessary media assets can be stopped by using media queries. Generally speaking, avoiding CSS3 shadows, gradients, transforms, and animations within mobile styles isn’t a bad idea either. When used excessively, they cause heavy loading and can even reduce a device’s battery life.

```
/* Default media */
body {
  background: #ddd;
}
/* Media for larger devices */
@media screen and (min-width: 800px) {
  body {
    background-image: url("bg.png") 50% 50% no-repeat;
  }
}

```
## Viewport

Mobile devices generally do a pretty decent job of displaying websites these days. Sometimes they could use a little assistance though, particularly around identifying the viewport size, scale, and resolution of a website. To remedy this, Apple invented the viewport meta tag.

For the best results, and the best looking website, it is recommend that you use the device defaults by applying the device-height and device-width values.
```
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">

```

### Viewport Scale

To control how a website is scaled on a mobile device, and how users can continue to scale a website, use the **_minimum-scale, maximum-scale, initial-scale,_** and **_user-scalable_** properties.

### CSS Viewport Rule
Since the viewport meta tag revolves so heavily around setting the styles of how a website should be rendered it has been recommend to move the viewport from a meta tag with HTML to an @ rule within CSS. 
```
@viewport {
  width: device-width;
  zoom: 1;
}
```

## Flexible Media
The final, equally important aspect to responsive web design involves flexible media. As viewports begin to change size media doesn’t always follow suit. Images, videos, and other media types need to be scalable, changing their size as the size of the viewport changes.

One quick way to make media scalable is by using the max-width property with a value of 100%. Doing so ensures that as the viewport gets smaller any media will scale down according to its containers width.
```
img, video, canvas {
  max-width: 100%;
}
```
### Flexible Embedded Media

Unfortunately the max-width property doesn’t work well for all instances of media, specifically around iframes and embedded media. When it comes to third party websites, such as YouTube, who use iframes for embedded media this is a huge disappointment. Fortunately, there is a work around.

To get embedded media to be fully responsive, the embedded element needs to be absolutely positioned within a parent element. The parent element needs to have a width of 100% so that it may scale based on the width of the viewport. The parent element also needs to have a height of 0 to trigger the hasLayout mechanism within Internet Explorer.
```
figure {
  height: 0;
  padding-bottom: 56.25%; /* 16:9 */
  position: relative;
  width: 100%;
}
iframe {
  height: 100%;
  left: 0;
  position: absolute;
  top: 0;
  width: 100%;
}

```



