# React part 3

## React Router

To get started with React Router in a web app, you’ll need a React web app. If you need to create one, we recommend you try Create React App. It’s a popular tool that works really well with React Router.

First, install create-react-app and make a new project with it.

To get started with React Router in a web app, you’ll need a React web app. If you need to create one, we recommend you try Create React App. It’s a popular tool that works really well with React Router.

First, install create-react-app and make a new project with it.

## Example

In this example we have 3 “pages” handled by the router: a home page, an about page, and a users page. As you click around on the different ```<Link>```s, the router renders the matching ```<Route>```.

Note: Behind the scenes a ```<Link>``` renders an ```<a>``` with a real href, so people using the keyboard for navigation or screen readers will still be able to use this app.

```javascript
import React from "react";
import {
  BrowserRouter as Router,
  Switch,
  Route,
  Link
} from "react-router-dom";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <div>
        <nav>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <Link to="/">Home</Link>
            </li>
            <li>
              <Link to="/about">About</Link>
            </li>
            <li>
              <Link to="/users">Users</Link>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </nav>

        {/* A <Switch> looks through its children <Route>s and
            renders the first one that matches the current URL. */}
        <Switch>
          <Route path="/about">
            <About />
          </Route>
          <Route path="/users">
            <Users />
          </Route>
          <Route path="/">
            <Home />
          </Route>
        </Switch>
      </div>
    </Router>
  );
}

function Home() {
  return <h2>Home</h2>;
}

function About() {
  return <h2>About</h2>;
}

function Users() {
  return <h2>Users</h2>;
}
```

## Styling and CSS

Can I use inline styles?

- Yes, see the docs on styling here.

Are inline styles bad?

- CSS classes are generally better for performance than inline styles.

What is CSS-in-JS?

- “CSS-in-JS” refers to a pattern where CSS is composed using JavaScript instead of defined in external files. Read a comparison of CSS-in-JS libraries here.

Note that this functionality is not a part of React, but provided by third-party libraries. React does not have an opinion about how styles are defined; if in doubt, a good starting point is to define your styles in a separate *.css file as usual and refer to them using className.

Can I do animations in React?

- React can be used to power animations. See React Transition Group and React Motion or React Spring, for example.
