# Sass Basics

## Preprocessing

CSS on its own can be fun, but stylesheets are getting larger, more complex, and harder to maintain. This is where a preprocessor can help. Sass lets you use features that don't exist in CSS yet like variables, nesting, mixins, inheritance and other nifty goodies that make writing CSS fun again.

Once you start tinkering with Sass, it will take your preprocessed Sass file and save it as a normal CSS file that you can use in your website.

The most direct way to make this happen is in your terminal. Once Sass is installed, you can compile your Sass to CSS using the sass command. You'll need to tell Sass which file to build from, and where to output CSS to. For example, running sass input.scss output.css from your terminal would take a single Sass file, input.scss, and compile that file to output.css.

## Variables

Think of variables as a way to store information that you want to reuse throughout your stylesheet. You can store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value you think you'll want to reuse. Sass uses the $ symbol to make something a variable. Here's an example:

```Sass
$font-stack:    Helvetica, sans-serif
$primary-color: #333

body
  font: 100% $font-stack
  color: $primary-color
```

```CSS
body {
  font: 100% Helvetica, sans-serif;
  color: #333;
}
```

When the Sass is processed, it takes the variables we define for the $font-stack and $primary-color and outputs normal CSS with our variable values placed in the CSS. This can be extremely powerful when working with brand colors and keeping them consistent throughout the site.

## Nesting

When writing HTML you've probably noticed that it has a clear nested and visual hierarchy. CSS, on the other hand, doesn't.

Sass will let you nest your CSS selectors in a way that follows the same visual hierarchy of your HTML. Be aware that overly nested rules will result in over-qualified CSS that could prove hard to maintain and is generally considered bad practice.

With that in mind, here's an example of some typical styles for a site's navigation:

```Sass
nav
  ul
    margin: 0
    padding: 0
    list-style: none

  li
    display: inline-block

  a
    display: block
    padding: 6px 12px
    text-decoration: none
```

```css
nav ul {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  list-style: none;
}
nav li {
  display: inline-block;
}
nav a {
  display: block;
  padding: 6px 12px;
  text-decoration: none;
}
```

You'll notice that the ul, li, and a selectors are nested inside the nav selector. This is a great way to organize your CSS and make it more readable.

## Partials

You can create partial Sass files that contain little snippets of CSS that you can include in other Sass files. This is a great way to modularize your CSS and help keep things easier to maintain. A partial is a Sass file named with a leading underscore. You might name it something like _partial.scss. The underscore lets Sass know that the file is only a partial file and that it should not be generated into a CSS file. Sass partials are used with the @use rule.

