# Lessons in problem solving

“Everyone in this country should learn to program a computer, because it teaches you to think.” — Steve Jobs

Essentially, it’s all about a more effective way for problem solving.

## Why is this important?

Problem solving is the meta-skill.

We all have problems. Big and small. How we deal with them is sometimes, well…pretty random.

Unless you have a system, this is probably how you “solve” problems (which is what I did when I started coding):

Try a solution.
If that doesn’t work, try another one.
If that doesn’t work, repeat step 2 until you luck out.

## Have a framework

To find the right framework, I followed the advice in Tim Ferriss’ book on learning, “The 4-Hour Chef”.

## what should you do when you encounter a new problem?

Here are the steps:

**1. Understand**
Know exactly what is being asked. Most hard problems are hard because you don’t understand them (hence why this is the first step).

**2. Plan**
Don’t dive right into solving without a plan (and somehow hope you can muddle your way through). Plan your solution!

**3. Divide**
Pay attention. This is the most important step of all.

Do not try to solve one big problem. You will cry.

Instead, break it into sub-problems. These sub-problems are much easier to solve.

Then, solve each sub-problem one by one. Begin with the simplest. Simplest means you know the answer (or are closer to that answer).

**4. Stuck?**
By now, you’re probably sitting there thinking “Hey Richard... That’s cool and all, but what if I’m stuck and can’t even solve a sub-problem??”

First off, take a deep breath. Second, that’s fair.

Don’t worry though, friend. This happens to everyone!

Keep trying and you will finally get to it.
